I should point out you're not a crazy
gold-bug let's start that off number one
so I asked you is Texas crazy Texas is
not crazy I think they're being very
prudent by the way I bought an example
of contraband this is a solid gold coin
eighty years ago this would have landed
you in jail but fortunately we're free
to own them today
now look Texas is looking ahead they
have close to a billion dollars of state
pension money and various state assets
in gold right now that gold is in New
York it was confiscated before we saw
the deposit confiscation in Cyprus you
should expect more of these around the
world so they're just saying very simple
thing we'd like our gold here in Texas
thank you very much but what possible
reason because the government had for
taking States gold well the reason is
that the greatest economic problem in
the world today the one the Fed is
facing is deflation now the Fed is doing
everything possible to create inflation
what are they doing cutting rates
quantitative easing Operation Twist
nominal GDP targeting forward guidance
currency wars they're doing everything
but it's not working when all else fails
the inflationary numeraire of last
resort is to devalue the dollar against
gold I like to say gold never changes in
value it's just currencies go up and
down and so this is what happened in
1933 as you just reported at Alex the
the Fed couldn't the Fed the Treasury
couldn't solve the deflation problem so
they said we'll devalue the dollar
against gold now gold never goes up in
isolation gold goes up everything else
goes up but there's not enough gold in
the world to sort of stop up our money
supply it supply at about 1550 an ounce
well the thing is that people say that's
not enough gold but there's always
enough gold the question is price at
fifteen fifteen ounce there's not enough
gold to support world finance and world
trade but it's seven thousand dollars an
ounce there's plenty of gold and that's
what Roosevelt did there wasn't enough
gold at twenty dollars now it's but at
$35 an ounce
that's a 75 remember the 1930s greatest
period of deflation in American history
gold went up 75 percent today deflation
is the enemy I expect gold to go up
again when the banks get desperate
enough they're not there yet though it's
not happening tomorrow right away mr.
break it down the state wants to move
its own gold it also wants institutions
like pension funds to dump some
government debt buy more gold store gold
in the depository also private citizens
can put their gold there why would you
trust Texas more than the Fed well
because Texas doesn't have a history of
confiscation the Fed does with you know
the United States government does we
just talked to you know Syria Iran or
lívia a lot of IQ but a lot of other
people about confiscation the we got
Bayer Aspirin we took it from the
Germans in World War one so the history
of freezes and seizures by the US
government is long and storied but Texas
doesn't have that history and it's Texas
the only sovereign state perhaps it's
doing this or is this a trend that we're
seeing there the only one doing the
depository there are 13 states that have
pending legislation to make gold legal
tender in the state I don't think that's
much of a solution because you still
have to pay for federal taxes state law
can't trump federal taxes but a
depository is different they're saying
you've got the physical feds you know go
get lost if you come looking for the
goal that you can tell them this is
along the same lines of Germany taking
its gold at Imperial I think it's a very
important point out this is part of a
larger global romana ties ation of gold
Germany's taking their gold back
Azerbaijan small player they're taking
their gold back
Luger Chavez Ben as well they got their
gold back a couple years ago it's being
debated in the Netherlands there's a
referendum coming up in Switzerland
Texas says we want our gold back Texas
is just acting like Germany you know
people I have a lot of friends in Texas
but the point is people want to say you
know they're they're Texans they're
crazy well Angela Merkel is not crazy
Texas is doing what she's doing so I
think it's a very serious move on their
part what's the probability that this
actually passes this bill I think they
based on my discussions with folks in
Austin the odds are good it's getting
bipartisan support of course Governor
Perry's no records supporting it they
have a short legislation legislative
session so it should move fairly quickly
from here now gold prices have been
falling though recently despite the fact
that we see the BOJ really committing to
monetary quantitative easing what does
that do to investor psychology though
well gold is actually up 25 percent in
the last three months but it's up in the
end not dollars and this is where the
currency wars and the gold dynamics come
together when you think about cross
rates it's a zero-sum game not every
currency can go down against every other
currency at once so gold is always
rallying somewhere right now it's
rattling in yen if you wanted to get
fancy you would short down by borrowing
buy gold when the end gets there's a 110
unwind that trade then you want to short
sterling and buy gold and then and then
you get then and then at the end of the
day I'll come back $2 well it's not
going to do much in dollars in my view
for most of the rest of the are I look
for the dollar gold move late this year
early 2014
meantime you know Jimmy Buffett says
it's five o'clock somewhere and you can
always make money and gold but but you
you have to pick your currency that's
the test for the currency where's the
gold come together